
# [1190. Reverse Substrings Between Each Pair of Parentheses]([problem-link](https://leetcode.com/problems/reverse-substrings-between-each-pair-of-parentheses/description))

You are given a string `s` that consists of lowercase English letters and brackets.

Reverse the strings in each pair of matching parentheses, starting from the innermost one.

Your result should not contain any brackets.

**Example 1:**

    Input: s = "(abcd)"
    Output: "dcba"

**Example 2:**

    Input: s = "(u(love)i)"
    Output: "iloveu"
    Explanation: The substring "love" is reversed first, then the whole string is reversed.

****Example 3:**

    Input: s = "(ed(et(oc))el)"
    Output: "leetcode"
    Explanation: First, we reverse the substring "oc", then "etco", and finally, the whole string.
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 2000`
- `s` only contains lowercase English characters and parentheses.
- It is guaranteed that all parentheses are balanced.

---

## Solution

### Approach
We will use **Wormhole Teleportation technique** to solve tthis problem. 

The main idea of this approach is to consider paired parentheses as "wormholes." When we come across a parenthesis, we imagine jumping through a wormhole to its matching parenthesis and reversing our direction. This technique effectively reverses the order of characters within each pair of parentheses without physically reversing the string.

    forward ->  ( ... ( ... ) ... )  <- backward
                ^     ^    ^     ^
                |     |    |     |
                A-----B----b-----a
                    wormholes

Look at the art above and notice the following: When we encounter the opening parenthesis (`A`), we jump to its corresponding closing parenthesis (`a`) and begin moving backward. Conversely, when we hit the closing parenthesis (`b`) while moving backward, we jump to its matching opening parenthesis and start moving forward again (`B`). This process will ultimately produce our result string without needing to use the reverse function, reducing the time complexity to `O(n)`.

#### Algorithm
- **Pair up parentheses**
  - Initialize `openParenthesisIdx` stack and `pair` vector to establish "wormhole" connections.
  - For each character:
    - If '(', push its index to `openParenthesisIdx` to remember its position.
    - If ')', pop from `openParenthesisIdx` and link both indices in pair to create the "wormhole".

- **Build the result string**

  - Initialize `result` string, `currIndex`, and `direction` to traverse and build the result.
  - While `currIndex` < size of the string:
    - If '(' or ')', jump through the "wormhole" using `pair` and reverse direction to simulate reversal.
    - Otherwise, append the character to the `result` to build the result.
    - Move `currIndex` by direction to continue traversal.
  - Return `result` as the final string with all reversals simulated.


### Complexity

- **Time Complexity:** `O(n)`

    - Iterate through the string once to pair up parentheses using a stack, resulting in `O(n)` time complexity.
    - Then, iterate through the string again to construct the final result string. each character is processed once. This results in another `O(n)` time complexity.

- **Space Complexity:** `O(n)`

    - In the worst case, the stack may hold up to `O(n/2)` elements (when all are opening parentheses), resulting in `O(n)` space complexity.
    - An array pair of size `n` stores indices of matching parentheses. This contributes `O(n)` space complexity.

### Code

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    string reverseParentheses(string s) {
        int n = s.size();
        stack<int> openParenthesisIdx;
        vector<int> pair(n);

        string result = "";

        for(int i=0; i<n; i++) {
            if(s[i] == '(') {
                openParenthesisIdx.push(i);
            } else if(s[i] == ')') {
                int top = openParenthesisIdx.top();
                openParenthesisIdx.pop();

                pair[i] = top;
                pair[top] = i;
            }
        }

        int direction = 1;

        for(int currIdx=0; currIdx<n; currIdx+=direction) {
            if(s[currIdx] == '(' || s[currIdx] == ')') {
                currIdx = pair[currIdx];
                direction = -1*direction;
            } else {
                result += s[currIdx];
            }
        }
        return result;
    }
};
```


    Tags: C++, cpp, leetcode, leetcode 1190, greedy, implementation, stack
