
# [1382. Balance a Binary Search Tree](https://leetcode.com/problems/balance-a-binary-search-tree/description)

Given the `root` of a binary search tree, return a *balanced binary search tree* with the same node values. If there is more than one answer, return *any of them*.

A binary search tree is *balanced* if the depth of the two subtrees of every node never differs by more than `1`.

 

**Example 1:**

    Input: root = [1,null,2,null,3,null,4,null,null]
    Output: [2,1,3,null,null,null,4]
    Explanation: This is not the only correct answer, [3,1,4,null,2] is also correct.

**Example 2:**

    Input: root = [2,1,3]
    Output: [2,1,3]
 
**Constraints:**

- The number of nodes in the tree is in the range `[1, 104]`.
- `1 <= Node.val <= 105`

---

## Solution

We can solve this problem by storing the node value of the BST in increasing order and then construct another balanced tree from that stored node values.

### Approach

To store the nodes of the BST in increasing order, we can iteratively visit each node in the following order: first the left subtree, then the node itself, and finally the right subtree, known as an inorder traversal.

With the nodes of the BST stored in an array in increasing order, we can now reconstruct the BST to be balanced.

In the stored array, for any given element that serves as the root, all elements to its left belong to the left subtree, and all elements to its right belong to the right subtree.
 
To construct a balanced BST, we pick the middle element of the array as the root, ensuring the number of elements in the left and right subtrees differs by at most one. We then recursively apply the same process to the left and right subarrays to build the left and right subtrees. This approach ensures the balanced property of the BST.

### Algorithm
1. Initialization:
    - Create an empty list `nodeVal` to store the nodes' values after the `nodeVal` traversal.

2. Perform `nodeVal` traversal:
    - Traverse the BST and populate the `nodeVal` list with the node values in sorted order.
3. Reconstruct the balanced BST:
    - Define a recursive function `buildBalancedTree` that takes the `nodeVal` list, `start` index, and `end` index as parameters.
        - If `start` is greater than `end`, return null.
        - Calculate the `mid` index as the middle of the current range.
        - Create a new tree node with the value at the `mid` index.
        - Recursively build the left subtree using the left half of the current range.
        - Recursively build the right subtree using the right half of the current range.
4. Return the `root` of the newly constructed balanced BST.

### Explanation with example

**explain the approach with example.**

### Complexity

- **Time Complexity:** `O(n)`

    - The `inorderTraversal` function visits each node exactly once, resulting in a time complexity of `O(n)`.
    - Constructing the balanced BST with the `buildBalancedTree` function also involves visiting each node exactly once, resulting in a time complexity of `O(n)`.

    Therefore, the overall time complexity is `O(n)`.

- **Space Complexity:** `O(n)`

    - The `inorderTraversal` function uses an additional array to store the inorder traversal, which requires `O(n)` space.
    - The recursive calls in the `inorderTraversal` and `buildBalancedTree` functions contribute to the space complexity. In the worst case, the recursion stack can grow to `O(n)` for a skewed tree.

    Therefore, the overall space complexity is `O(n)`.

### Code

```cpp
/**
 * Definition for a binary tree node.
 * struct TreeNode {
 *     int val;
 *     TreeNode *left;
 *     TreeNode *right;
 *     TreeNode() : val(0), left(nullptr), right(nullptr) {}
 *     TreeNode(int x) : val(x), left(nullptr), right(nullptr) {}
 *     TreeNode(int x, TreeNode *left, TreeNode *right) : val(x), left(left), right(right) {}
 * };
 */
class Solution {
public:
    TreeNode* balanceBST(TreeNode* root) {
        
        vector<int> nodeVal;
        inorderTraversal(root, nodeVal);

        return buildBalancedTree(nodeVal, 0, nodeVal.size() - 1);
    }

    void inorderTraversal(TreeNode* node, vector<int> &nodeVal) {
        if(node == NULL)
            return;
        inorderTraversal(node->left, nodeVal);
        nodeVal.push_back(node->val);
        inorderTraversal(node->right, nodeVal);
    }

    TreeNode* buildBalancedTree(vector<int> &nodeVal, int start, int end) {
        if(start > end) {
            return NULL;
        }
        int mid = start + ((end - start)>>1);


        TreeNode* node = new TreeNode(nodeVal[mid]);

        node->left = buildBalancedTree(nodeVal, start, mid-1);
        node->right = buildBalancedTree(nodeVal, mid+1, end);

        return node;
    }
};
```

Tags: C++, cpp, leetcode, leetcode 1382, graph, BST, binary search