
# [1509. Minimum Difference Between Largest and Smallest Value in Three Moves]([problem-link](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-difference-between-largest-and-smallest-value-in-three-moves/description))

You are given an integer array `nums`.

In one move, you can choose one element of `nums` and change it to any value.

Return the *minimum difference* between the largest and smallest value of `nums` after performing at most three moves.

 
**Example 1:**

    Input: nums = [5,3,2,4]
    Output: 0
    Explanation: We can make at most 3 moves.
    In the first move, change 2 to 3. nums becomes [5,3,3,4].
    In the second move, change 4 to 3. nums becomes [5,3,3,3].
    In the third move, change 5 to 3. nums becomes [3,3,3,3].
    After performing 3 moves, the difference between the minimum and maximum is 3 - 3 = 0.

**Example 2:**

    Input: nums = [1,5,0,10,14]
    Output: 1
    Explanation: We can make at most 3 moves.
    In the first move, change 5 to 0. nums becomes [1,0,0,10,14].
    In the second move, change 10 to 0. nums becomes [1,0,0,0,14].
    In the third move, change 14 to 1. nums becomes [1,0,0,0,1].
    After performing 3 moves, the difference between the minimum and maximum is 1 - 0 = 1.
    It can be shown that there is no way to make the difference 0 in 3 moves.

**Example 3:**

    Input: nums = [3,100,20]
    Output: 0
    Explanation: We can make at most 3 moves.
    In the first move, change 100 to 7. nums becomes [3,7,20].
    In the second move, change 20 to 7. nums becomes [3,7,7].
    In the third move, change 3 to 7. nums becomes [7,7,7].
    After performing 3 moves, the difference between the minimum and maximum is 7 - 7 = 0.
 
**Constraints:**

- `1 <= nums.length <= 10^5`
- `-10^9 <= nums[i] <= 10^9`

---

## Solution

We'll tackle this problem by changing up to 3 values to an existing value in the array. After making these changes, the altered values won't impact the final calculation of the difference. Essentially, this means our changes will function as deletions.

Our goal is to identify which three elements to delete to minimize this difference.

It's crucial to note that removing elements that are neither the largest nor the smallest won't decrease the overall difference and will waste our moves. Therefore, sorting our array will help us evaluate the values more effectively.

For example, in the array `nums = [1, 4, 7, 10, 12, 16]`, the difference between the largest and smallest values is `16 - 1 = 15`. Deleting `10` doesn't affect the difference, thus wasting a move.

We should concentrate on removing elements at the ends of the sorted array, where the largest and smallest values reside. By doing so, we can reduce the range and effectively minimize the difference.

### Approach

Once we sort the array, how do we know which three values to target? There are four possible optimal scenarios:

- Removing the three largest elements.
- Removing the two largest and one smallest elements.
- Removing one largest and two smallest elements.
- Removing the three smallest elements.

With this approach, our only way to identify the three most impactful values to delete is to evaluate each scenario and choose the result that leads to the least difference between the smallest and largest values.

### Explanation with example

    Input: nums = [1, 4, 7, 10, 12, 16]

- Removing the three largest elements, difference = `7-1 = 6`
- Removing the two largest and one smallest elements, difference = `10-4 = 6`
- Removing one largest and two smallest elements, difference = `12-7 = 5`
- Removing the three smallest elements, difference = `10-16 = 6`

So, the *minimum difference* is `5`.

### Complexity

- **Time Complexity:** `O(n)`

    - The `partial_sort` function runs in `O(n⋅log4)`=`O(n)` time as it sorts only the first four elements and ensures the smallest four elements are in place.

    - The `nth_element` function, which partitions the array around the 4th largest element, also runs in `O(n)` time.

    - The `sort` function, which sorts the last four elements, runs in `O(4⋅log4)`=`O(1)` time because sorting a constant number of elements is constant time.

- **Space Complexity:** `O(1)`

### Code

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int minDifference(vector<int>& nums) {
        if(nums.size() < 5) {
            return 0;
        }

        // Partially sort the first four elements
        partial_sort(nums.begin(), nums.begin() + 4, nums.end());
        // Find the 4th largest element
        nth_element(nums.begin() + 4, nums.begin() + (nums.size() - 4),
                    nums.end());
        // Sort the last four elements
        sort(nums.begin() + (nums.size() - 4), nums.end());

        int minDiff = INT_MAX;

        for(int left=0, right = nums.size() - 4; left<4; left++, right++) {
            minDiff = min(minDiff, nums[right] - nums[left]);
        }

        return minDiff;
    }
};
```

    Tags: C++, cpp, leetcode, leetcode 1509, adhoc