
# [1717. Maximum Score From Removing Substrings](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-score-from-removing-substrings/description)

You are given a string `s` and two integers `x` and `y`. You can perform two types of operations any number of times.

- Remove substring "ab" and gain x points.
  - For example, when removing "ab" from "cabxbae" it becomes "cxbae".
- Remove substring "ba" and gain y points.
  - For example, when removing "ba" from "cabxbae" it becomes "cabxe".
Return *the maximum points you can gain after applying the above operations on `s`*.

**Example 1:**

  Input: s = "cdbcbbaaabab", x = 4, y = 5
  Output: 19
  Explanation:
  - Remove the "ba" underlined in "cdbcbbaaabab". Now, s = "cdbcbbaaab" and 5 points are added to the score.
  - Remove the "ab" underlined in "cdbcbbaaab". Now, s = "cdbcbbaa" and 4 points are added to the score.
  - Remove the "ba" underlined in "cdbcbbaa". Now, s = "cdbcba" and 5 points are added to the score.
  - Remove the "ba" underlined in "cdbcba". Now, s = "cdbc" and 5 points are added to the score.
  Total score = 5 + 4 + 5 + 5 = 19.

**Example 2:**

  Input: s = "aabbaaxybbaabb", x = 5, y = 4
  Output: 20
 
**Constraints:**

- `1 <= s.length <= 10^5`
- `1 <= x, y <= 10^4`
- `s` consists of lowercase English letters.

---

## Solution

The key insight is to prioritize removing the substring ('ab' or 'ba') that yields the higher points first.

We tackle this problem using a two-pass approach to efficiently remove both substrings:

1. In the first pass, remove all instances of the higher-scoring substring.
2. In the second pass, remove all instances of the lower-scoring substring from the remaining text.

This is done using a stack-based approach. As we iterate through the string, we push characters onto a stack. If the character at the top of the stack 
and the current character form the target substring, we pop the stack and continue without pushing the current character. This effectively removes the substring.
If you are unfamiliar with this technique, practicing on a similar problem might be helpful.

After the first pass, we reconstruct the remaining string by popping all characters from the stack into a new string and reversing it.
We repeat this process for the lower-scoring substring.

We determine the total number of removed substrings by comparing the string's length before and after the removal process.
The length difference, divided by 2 (since each substring is two characters long), gives the count of removed substrings. 
We then multiply this count by the point value of that substring to calculate the score for each pass.

##### Algorithm

### Explanation with example

**explain the approach with example.**

### Complexity

- **Time Complexity:**

    - `O(n)`

- **Space Complexity:**

    - `O(n)`

### Code

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int maximumGain(string s, int x, int y) {
        int maxPoints = 0;

        string stringAfterFirstPass = removeSubstring(s, x>=y ? "ab" : "ba");

        int removedChars = (s.size() - stringAfterFirstPass.size());
        maxPoints = (removedChars/2) * max(x,y);

        string stringAfterSecondPass = removeSubstring(stringAfterFirstPass, x<y ? "ab" : "ba");

        removedChars = (stringAfterFirstPass.size() - stringAfterSecondPass.size());
        maxPoints += (removedChars/2) * min(x,y);

        return maxPoints;
    }

private:
    string removeSubstring(const string& input, const string& targetPair) {
        stack<char> stk;
        for(char c:input) {
            if(stk.empty()) {
                stk.push(c);
            } else {
                if(c == targetPair[1] && stk.top() == targetPair[0]) {
                    stk.pop();
                } else {
                    stk.push(c);
                }
            }
        }

        string remainingChars = "";
        while(!stk.empty()) {
            remainingChars += stk.top();
            stk.pop();
        }

        reverse(remainingChars.begin(), remainingChars.end());
        return remainingChars;
    }
};
```


    Tags: C++, cpp, leetcode
