
# [1791. Find Center of Star Graph](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-center-of-star-graph/description)

There is an undirected star graph consisting of `n` nodes labeled from `1` to `n`. A star graph is a graph where there is one center node and exactly `n - 1` edges that connect the center node with every other node.

You are given a 2D integer array edges where each **edges[i] = [u<sub>i</sub>, v<sub>i</sub>]** indicates that there is an edge between the nodes **u<sub>i</sub>** and **v<sub>i</sub>**. Return the center of the given star graph.

**Example 1:**

    Input: edges = [[1,2],[2,3],[4,2]]
    Output: 2
    Explanation: As shown in the figure above, node 2 is connected to every other node, so 2 is the center.

**Example 2:**

    Input: edges = [[1,2],[5,1],[1,3],[1,4]]
    Output: 1
 

**Constraints:**

- `3 <= n <= 10^5`
- `edges.length == n - 1`
- `edges[i].length == 2`
- 1 <= **u<sub>i</sub>**, **v<sub>i</sub>** <= n
- **u<sub>i</sub>** != **v<sub>i</sub>**
- The given edges represent a valid star graph.

---

## Solution

We have a graph with `n` nodes connected by `n-1` edges in a star formation. Our task is to find the center node of this star.

### Approach 1: Degree Count

The center node has a unique property: it's connected to every other node. This means it has `n-1` connections, while all other nodes have only one connection each.

So, for a valid star graph, the node with more than one connection can be considered as the center node.

### Algorithm
1. Initialize an empty array `degree` to store the degree of all nodes.

2. Iterate over the edges:
    - for each edge, if the degree of the current node is greater than `1`, the current node is the center node.
    -  otherwise, for each edge, increment the degree of nodes this edge connects in the map degree.
3. Return the `result`

### Complexity

- **Time Complexity:** `O(1)`

    In most of the cases, we will find the center node on second iteration of the for loop. Hence, time complexity is `O(1)`.

- **Space Complexity:** `O(n)`

    We use an auxilary array of lenth n. Hence space complexity is `O(n)`.

### Code

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int findCenter(vector<vector<int>>& edges) {
        int n = edges.size();
        vector<int> degree(n+2, 0);
        int result = 0;

        for(auto& edge:edges) {
            if(degree[edge[0]] > 0) {
                result =  edge[0];
                break;
            }
            else if(degree[edge[1]] > 0) {
                 result =  edge[1];
                 break;
            }
            degree[edge[0]]++;
            degree[edge[1]]++;
        }
        return result;
    }
};
```

### Approach 2: Greedy

As we see on the previous solution, We only need to check any two edges in the list to find the solution. The common node between these edges is guaranteed to be the center. This works because, in a star graph with N-1 edges, only the center node has a degree greater than 1.

For simplicity, we can just check the first two edges in the list. The node common to both is our center.

### Algorithm
1. Declare the `firstEdge` and `secondEdge` as the first two edges in the edges respectively.

2. Check if the first node in the `firstEdge` is equal to any of the two nodes in the `secondEdge`, 
    - if yes return the first node in `firstEdge`. 
    - Otherwise, return the second node in the `firstEdge`.

### Complexity

- **Time Complexity:** `O(1)`

- **Space Complexity:** `O(1)`


### Code

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int findCenter(vector<vector<int>>& edges) {
        auto firstEdge = edges[0];
        auto secondEdge = edges[1];

        if(firstEdge[0] == secondEdge[0] || firstEdge[0] == secondEdge[1]) {
            return firstEdge[0];
        } else {
            return firstEdge[1];
        }
    }
};
```

    Tags: C++, cpp, leetcode, leetcode 1791, Graph, Greedy