
# [2285. Maximum Total Importance of Roads](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-total-importance-of-roads/description)

You are given an integer `n` denoting the number of cities in a country. The cities are numbered from `0` to `n - 1`.

You are also given a 2D integer array roads where **roads[i] = [a<sub>i</sub>, b<sub>i</sub>]** denotes that there exists a bidirectional road connecting cities a<sub>i</sub> and b<sub>i</sub>.

You need to assign each city with an integer value from `1` to `n`, where each value can only be used once. The importance of a road is then defined as the sum of the values of the two cities it connects.

Return the *maximum total importance* of all roads possible after assigning the values optimally.

 

**Example 1:**

    Input: n = 5, roads = [[0,1],[1,2],[2,3],[0,2],[1,3],[2,4]]
    Output: 43
    Explanation: The figure above shows the country and the assigned values of [2,4,5,3,1].
    - The road (0,1) has an importance of 2 + 4 = 6.
    - The road (1,2) has an importance of 4 + 5 = 9.
    - The road (2,3) has an importance of 5 + 3 = 8.
    - The road (0,2) has an importance of 2 + 5 = 7.
    - The road (1,3) has an importance of 4 + 3 = 7.
    - The road (2,4) has an importance of 5 + 1 = 6.
    The total importance of all roads is 6 + 9 + 8 + 7 + 7 + 6 = 43.
    It can be shown that we cannot obtain a greater total importance than 43.

**Example 2:**

    Input: n = 5, roads = [[0,3],[2,4],[1,3]]
    Output: 20
    Explanation: The figure above shows the country and the assigned values of [4,3,2,5,1].
    - The road (0,3) has an importance of 4 + 5 = 9.
    - The road (2,4) has an importance of 2 + 1 = 3.
    - The road (1,3) has an importance of 3 + 5 = 8.
    The total importance of all roads is 9 + 3 + 8 = 20.
    It can be shown that we cannot obtain a greater total importance than 20.
 
**Constraints:**

- `2 <= n <= 5 * 10^4`
- `1 <= roads.length <= 5 * 10^4`
- `roads[i].length == 2`
- `0` <= a<sub>i</sub>, b<sub>i</sub> <= `n - 1`
- a<sub>i</sub> != b<sub>i</sub>

There are no duplicate roads.

---

## Solution

We have `n` cities (nodes) numbered `0` to `n-1`, connected by bidirectional roads (edges). Our task is to assign unique values from `1` to `n` to each node, maximizing the total importance of all edges.

Edge importance is defined as the sum of the values of the nodes it connects.

### Approach

A node's value influences its importance for every edge it connects to. Therefore, nodes with more connections should be given higher values.

To address this problem, follow these three steps:

1. Determine the degree of each node.
2. Sort the nodes in ascending order based on their degree.
3. Assign values from `1` to `n` to the nodes, starting with the node with the lowest degree.

It's important to note that if multiple nodes have the same degree, the values assigned to them can be interchanged. This is because the total importance sum of all edges will remain unaffected.

### Algorithm
1. Initialize an array `degree` of size `n` to store the degree of each node, starting with all values set to `0`.

2. Iterate through the list of edges `roads` and increment the degree for each node connected by an edge, i.e., edge[0] and edge[1].

3. Sort the array `degree` in the ascending order.

4. Set the variable `valueToAssiged` to `1`, which will be the value assigned to the nodes. Initialize the variable `result` to `0` to store the maximum importance of all edges.

6. Iterate through the `degree` array, adding the importance (calculated as node degree multiplied by the assigned value) to the `result` variable. Also, increment `valueToAssiged` to assign it to the next node.

7. Return `result`.

### Complexity

m is the number of edges. In worst case m = n<sup>2</sup> ( every node has a edge with all other nodes)

- **Time Complexity:** `O(m + nlogn)` or `O(n^2)` if m = n<sup>2</sup>

- **Space Complexity:** `O(n)`

    - Additional space for the degree array - `O(n)`
    - Sort algorithm taking `O(logn)`

### Code

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    long long maximumImportance(int n, vector<vector<int>>& roads) {
        vector<int> degree(n, 0);

        for(auto road:roads) {
            degree[road[0]]++;
            degree[road[1]]++;
        }

       sort(degree.begin(), degree.end());

       long long result = 0;
       long long valueToAssiged = 1;

       for(int val:degree) {
            result += (valueToAssiged * (long long) val);
            valueToAssiged++;
       }
       return result;
    }
};
```

    Tags: C++, cpp, leetcode, leetcode 2285, Graph, sorting, Greedy