
# [2582. Pass the Pillow]([problem-link](https://leetcode.com/problems/pass-the-pillow/description))

There are `n` people standing in a line labeled from `1` to `n`. The first person in the line is holding a pillow initially. Every second, the person holding the pillow passes it to the next person standing in the line.
Once the pillow reaches the end of the line, the direction changes, and people continue passing the pillow in the opposite direction.

For example, once the pillow reaches the **n<sup>th</sup>** person they pass it to the **n - 1<sup>th</sup>** person, then to the **n - 2<sup>th</sup>** person and so on.
Given the two positive integers `n` and `time`, return the index of the person holding the pillow after time seconds.

**Example 1:**

    Input: n = 4, time = 5
    Output: 2
    Explanation: People pass the pillow in the following way: 1 -> 2 -> 3 -> 4 -> 3 -> 2.
    After five seconds, the 2nd person is holding the pillow.

**Example 2:**

    Input: n = 3, time = 2
    Output: 3
    Explanation: People pass the pillow in the following way: 1 -> 2 -> 3.
    After two seconds, the 3rd person is holding the pillow.
 

**Constraints:**

- `2 <= n <= 1000`
- `1 <= time <= 1000`

---

## Solution

So, the pillow is moved to the last person after `n-1` seconds. After another `n-1` seconds, it is moved to the first person. So, we can say that there is a cycle of `n-1`. Now, if the number of the cycle is odd, then we can say that the direction of the pillow is from first to last person. If it is even, then the direction of the pillow is from last person to first.


### Explanation with example

    Input: n = 4, time = 5
    Output: 2

No of cycles = `5 / (4-1)` = `1`,
so after one cycle, the pillow is with the last person.
remaining steps after reaching last person = `5 % (4-1)` = `2`

so, the position of the pillar = `4-2` = `2`.

### Complexity

- **Time Complexity:**

    - `O(1)`

- **Space Complexity:**

    - `O(1)`

### Code

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int passThePillow(int n, int time) {
        int times = time/(n-1);
        int rem = time%(n-1);
        if(times % 2 == 0) {
            return rem + 1;
        } else {
            return (n - rem);
        }
    }
};
```
    Tags: C++, cpp, leetcode, leetcode 2582, adhoc