
# [330. Patching Array](https://leetcode.com/problems/patching-array/description)

Given a sorted integer array `nums` and an integer `n`, add/patch elements to the array such that any number in the range `[1, n]` inclusive can be formed by the sum of some elements in the array.

Return the minimum number of patches required.

**Example 1:**

    Input: nums = [1,3], n = 6
    Output: 1
    Explanation:
    Combinations of nums are [1], [3], [1,3], which form possible sums of: 1, 3, 4.
    Now if we add/patch 2 to nums, the combinations are: [1], [2], [3], [1,3], [2,3], [1,2,3].
    Possible sums are 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, which now covers the range [1, 6].
    So we only need 1 patch.

**Example 2:**

    Input: nums = [1,5,10], n = 20
    Output: 2
    Explanation: The two patches can be [2, 4].

**Example 3:**

    Input: nums = [1,2,2], n = 5
    Output: 0
 

**Constraints:**

- `1 <= nums.length <= 1000`
- `1 <= nums[i] <= 10^4`
- `nums` is sorted in ascending order.
- `1 <= n <= 2^31 - 1`

---

## Solution

Given a sorted integer array `nums` and an integer `n`, we need to find the minimum number of the elements required to be added to the array such that any number in the range `[1, n]` inclusive can be formed by the sum of some elements in the array.

As the array is already sorted, we need to find the missing number that should be added to form any number `[1,n]`.

### Approach

The code works by providing change with limited coin denominations. Suppose you need to cover every amount up to ð‘› cents. If you can't make an exact change for a particular amount missed, you lack a coin of value less than or equal to the miss. To fill this gap, you add a coin of that exact missing amount. This addition allows you to now cover new amounts up to 2 * miss. Repeat this process until you can provide change for every amount up to ð‘›. This method ensures you add the minimum number of new coins needed to cover any shortages.

### Algorithm

1. Initialize
    - `missing = 1`
    - `patch = 0`
    - `idx = 0`

2. While missing is less than or equal to `n`
    - if `idx` is less than the size of the `nums` and `missing` is greater or equal than the current number
        - Add the current number to `missing` and increase `idx`
    - else
        - Add a path number equal to `missing` and double the `missing`
3. Return patch

### Explanation with example

**Input:** `nums = [1,5,10]`, `n = 20`
**Output:** `2`

| `missing` | `idx` | `nums[idx]` | Updated `missing` | `patch` |
|-----------|-------|-------------|-------------------|---------|
| 1         | 0     | 1           | 2                 | 0       |
| 2         | 1     | 5           | 4                 | 1       |
| 4         | 1     | 5           | 8                 | 2       |
| 8         | 1     | 5           | 13                | 2       |
| 13        | 2     | 10          | 23                | 2       |

The minimum required patch is `2`.

### Complexity

- **Time Complexity:**

    - `O(m)` where `m = nums.size()` as we need to traverse the whole array in the worst case

- **Space Complexity:**

    - `O(1)`

### Code

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int minPatches(vector<int>& nums, int n) {
        long missing = 1;
        int patch = 0;
        int idx = 0;

        while(missing<=n) {
            if(idx < nums.size() && missing >= nums[idx]) {
                missing += nums[idx++];
            } else {
                missing += missing;
                patch++;
            }
        }
        return patch;
    }
};
```

    Tags: C++, cpp, leetcode, leetcode 330, Greedy
