
# [350. Intersection of Two Arrays II](https://leetcode.com/problems/intersection-of-two-arrays-ii/description)

Given two integer arrays `nums1` and `nums2`, return an array of their intersection. Each element in the result must appear as many times as it shows in both arrays and you may return the result in any order.

**Example 1:**

    Input: nums1 = [1,2,2,1], nums2 = [2,2]
    Output: [2,2]

**Example 2:**

    Input: nums1 = [4,9,5], nums2 = [9,4,9,8,4]
    Output: [4,9]
    Explanation: [9,4] is also accepted.
 
**Constraints:**

- `1 <= nums1.length, nums2.length <= 1000`
- `0 <= nums1[i], nums2[i] <= 1000`
 

**Follow up:**

- What if the given array is already sorted? How would you optimize your algorithm?
- What if nums1's size is small compared to nums2's size? Which algorithm is better?
- What if elements of nums2 are stored on disk, and the memory is limited such that you cannot load all elements into the memory at once?

---

## Solution

This is a simple implementational problem where we can count the frequency of elements in one array and match this with another array to get their intersection.

### Explanation with example

    Input: nums1 = [4,9,5], nums2 = [9,4,9,8,4]
    Output: [4,9]

After counting Frequency, the `freq` array will be = `[0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 1]`

| `num` | `freq[num] > 0` | `res`    | `freq`                           |
|-------|-----------------|----------|----------------------------------|
| 9     | true            | `[9]`    | `[0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0]` |
| 4     | true            | `[9, 4]` | `[0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0]` |
| 9     | false           | `[9, 4]` | `[0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0]` |
| 8     | false           | `[9, 4]` | `[0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0]` |
| 4     | false           | `[9, 4]` | `[0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0]` |


so, the result is `[9, 4]`.

### Complexity

- **Time Complexity:**

    - `O(n+m)` where `n` = size of `num1` and `m` = size of `num2`

- **Space Complexity:**

    - `O(max_val(num1, num2))`

### Code

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    vector<int> intersect(vector<int>& nums1, vector<int>& nums2) {
        vector<int> freq(1001, 0);
        vector<int> res;

        for(int num:nums1) {
            freq[num]++;
        }

        for(int num:nums2) {
            if(freq[num] > 0) {
                res.push_back(num);
                freq[num]--;
            }
        }
        return res;
    }
};
```

#### Follow-up Questions
1. What if the given array is already sorted? How would you optimize your algorithm?

    - If the arrays are already sorted, we can use two pointer. This reduces the space complexity to `O(1)` for the two-pointer traversal.

2. What if `nums1`'s size is small compared to `nums2`'s size? Which algorithm is better?

    - If `nums1` is much smaller than `nums2`, using a hash map to count elements in `nums1` and then iterating through `nums2` to find common elements can be more efficient. This avoids the overhead of sorting the larger array.

3. What if elements of `nums2` are stored on disk, and the memory is limited such that you cannot load all elements into the memory at once?

    - If elements of `nums2` are stored on disk, a multi-pass approach might be necessary. First, load chunks of `nums2` into memory, compare with `nums1` (which can be fully loaded if it is small enough), and keep track of the intersection.


    Tags: C++, cpp, leetcode, leetcode 350, adhoc, two pointers