
# [502. IPO](https://leetcode.com/problems/ipo/description)

Suppose LeetCode will start its IPO soon. In order to sell a good price of its shares to Venture Capital, LeetCode would like to work on some projects to increase its capital before the IPO. Since it has limited resources, it can only finish at most `k` distinct projects before the IPO. Help LeetCode design the best way to maximize its total capital after finishing at most `k` distinct projects.

You are given `n` projects where the ith project has a pure profit `profits[i]` and a minimum capital of `capital[i]` is needed to start it.

Initially, you have `w` capital. When you finish a project, you will obtain its pure profit and the profit will be added to your total capital.

Pick a list of **at most** `k` distinct projects from given projects to **maximize your final capital**, and return the *final maximized capital*.

The answer is guaranteed to fit in a 32-bit signed integer.


**Example 1:**

    Input: k = 2, w = 0, profits = [1,2,3], capital = [0,1,1]
    Output: 4
    Explanation: Since your initial capital is 0, you can only start the project indexed 0.
    After finishing it you will obtain profit 1 and your capital becomes 1.
    With capital 1, you can either start the project indexed 1 or the project indexed 2.
    Since you can choose at most 2 projects, you need to finish the project indexed 2 to get the maximum capital.
    Therefore, output the final maximized capital, which is 0 + 1 + 3 = 4.

**Example 2:**

    Input: k = 3, w = 0, profits = [1,2,3], capital = [0,1,2]
    Output: 6
 
**Constraints:**

- `1 <= k <= 10^5`
- `0 <= w <= 10^9`
- `n == profits.length`
- `n == capital.length`
- `1 <= n <= 10^5`
- `0 <= profits[i] <= 10^4`
- `0 <= capital[i] <= 10^9`

---

## Solution

In order to maximize the final capital, we need to select the project with heighest profit with current capital.

### Approach

1. Initialize a vector of pairs `vec` to store the capital and profits for each project.
2. Iterate through the `profits` and `capital`, creating pairs and pushing them into `vec`.
3. Sort `vec` in ascending order based on the capital.
4. Initialize a priority queue `pq` to store the profits of the projects that can be invested in the current capital.
5. Loop from `i = 0` until either `i` reaches the end of `vec` or `k` becomes zero
    - If the current capital is greater than or equal to the capital required for the current project, push the profit of the project into `pq` and increments `i`.
    - If the current capital is less than the capital required for the current project, check if `pq` is empty. 
    
        - If yes, no other project can be completed as all the next project's capital will be higher. So, it breaks out of the loop. 
        - Otherwise, we need to take the project with heighest profit so far. Add the top `profit` from `pq` to `curCapital`, remove it from `pq`, and decrement `k`.

6. Loop until `pq` is empty or `k` becomes zero.
    - Add the top profit from pq to curCapital, remove it from pq, and decrement k.
7. Finally, return the value of `curCapital`, which represents the **maximum capital that can be obtained after performing `k` investments**.

### Explanation with example

Input: `k = 2`, `w = 0`, `profits = [1,2,3]`, `capital = [0,1,1]`

`vec`: (0, 1), (1, 2), (1, 3)
After sorting: (0, 1), (1, 2), (1, 3)

`n = 3`
`curCapital = 0`

First while loop

| `i` | `vec`  | `curCapital` | `pq`  | `k` |
|-----|--------|--------------|-------|---|
| 0   | (0, 1) | 0            | [1]   | 2 |
| 1   | (1, 2) | 1            | []    | 1 |
| 2   | (1, 3) | 1            | [3]   | 1 |

Second while loop

| `pq` | `k` | `curCapital` |
|------|-----|--------------|
| [3]  | 0   | 4            |

### Complexity

- **Time Complexity:**

    - First for loop: `O(n)`
    - Sort function: `O(nlog(n))`
    - while loops: `O(nlog(n))`
    - Total: `O(nlog(n))`

- **Space Complexity:**

    - Additional Space: `O(n)`

### Code

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int findMaximizedCapital(int k, int w, vector<int>& profits, vector<int>& capital) {
        vector<pair<int,int>> vec;

        for(int i=0; i<profits.size(); i++) {
            vec.push_back(make_pair(capital[i], profits[i]));
        }

        sort(vec.begin(), vec.end());

        priority_queue<int> pq;

        int n = vec.size();
        int curCapital = w;
        int i = 0;
        while(i<n && k) {
            if(curCapital >= vec[i].first) {
                pq.push(vec[i].second);
                i++;
            }else {
                if(pq.empty())
                    break;
                curCapital += pq.top();
                pq.pop();
                k--;
            }
        }

        while(!pq.empty() && k--) {
            curCapital += pq.top();
            pq.pop();
        }

        return curCapital;
    }  
};
```

    Tags: C++, cpp, leetcode, leetcode 502, sorting, Greedy, heap
